+++
title = "NGC 6791"
image = "n6791.jpg"
highlight = true
external_link = ""
date = "2017-01-26T14:53:58-08:00"
image_preview = "n6791.jpg"
summary = "An old, massive, and metal rich open cluster"
tags = ["multiple-populations"]
math = false

+++
## A **very** brief intro to open clusters

Open clusters also provide a crucial laboratory for us to test our theories
of stellar formation and evolution. Open clusters are made up of hundreds to
thousands of stars that are not gravitationally bound and will one day be
dissolved by the gravitational potential of the Milky Way. The stars in
open clusters are all at approximately the same distance from the sun, have the
same chemical makeup, and were born at the same time, making them simple stellar
populations. By combining these shared characteristics with our knowledge of
the internal physics of stars, we are able to measure
things like the age, chemical content, and distance.
Unlike globular clusters, open clusters are made up of relatively young stars
with a higher metal content. These characteristics make open clusters good
tools for studying the more recent history of the Galaxy.


## What's the deal with NGC 6791?

NGC 6791, shown in the Hubble Image at the top of the page, is a very peculiar
open cluster in the Milky May. The mass and age of
this cluster are characteristic of an object somewhere between an open cluster
and a globular cluster. Due to these physical characteristics, studies have
attempted to determine if NGC 6791 shows the same chemical signatures found in
globular clusters. My research on this cluster has used spectra available from
the Sloan Extension for Galactic Understanding and Exploration (SEGUE) survey
to search for CN and CH abundance variations among cluster members, indicative
of multiple populations. From our analysis we were able to show that NGC 6791
does not show signs of multiple populations. Through the modeling of synthetic
spectra, we were also able to show that the CH band looses sensitivity at
high metallicites, and should be used with caution when trying to separate
populations. The paper we published regarding these findings can be found
[here]({{< ref "publication/N6791-abundances.md" >}})
